TEST-125 Focus smarter testing onboarding docs around doctor mode (#10150)
circleci/circleci-docs: docs/guides/modules/test/pages/getting-started-with-smarter-testing.adoc

----
$ sha256sum -c <(echo "{testsuite-sha-linux-arm64}  ./circleci-testsuite.gz")
----

After downloading the plugin and verifying the checksum, complete the following steps:

. Decompress the binary.
+
[source,console]
----
$ gunzip circleci-testsuite.gz
----
. Set the execute bit.
+
[source,console]
----
$ chmod u+x circleci-testsuite
----
. Move it to a directory on your shell's `$PATH`.
+
[source,console]
----
$ mv circleci-testsuite "${HOME}/bin/"
----
--

Windows AMD64::
+
--
https://circleci-binary-releases.s3.amazonaws.com/circleci-cli-plugins/circleci-testsuite/{testsuite-version}/windows/amd64/circleci-testsuite.exe.gz[Download]

Verify with:

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ sha256sum -c <(echo "{testsuite-sha-windows-amd64}  ./circleci-testsuite.exe.gz")
----

After downloading the plugin and verifying the checksum, complete the following steps:

. Decompress the binary.
+
[source,console]
----
$ gunzip circleci-testsuite.gz
----
. Set the execute bit.
+
[source,console]
----
$ chmod u+x circleci-testsuite
----
. Move it to a directory on your shell's `$PATH`.
+
[source,console]
----
$ mv circleci-testsuite "${HOME}/bin/"
----
--
====

> == 2. Add a `.circleci/test-suites.yml` file at your project root

Reviewer: As all the information is moved to the doctor command, at this stage, it might be hard for users to understand what they should be adding to test-suite.yml without any context or details. 

Just an idea: Maybe at this stage, all they need to do is just paste in a really basic stub which will be modified in the next step with the doctor command.

It seems like the config reference has some information about what the command is for. Would link to that be helpful for providing more context?

Author: I think this is covered? There are examples below the heading for a variety of test runners and a pseudo-runner example for `Other`.

I will add a bit more text to tell people what to do with the config samples.

I don't think we should be trying to direct people to the config reference just yet but we can make the `--doctor` mode output more explanation.

----
$ gem install rspec_junit_formatter
----

[source,yaml]
----
---
name: ci tests
discover: find spec -type f -name '*_spec.rb'
run: bundle exec rspec --format RspecJunitFormatter --out "<< outputs.junit >>" << test.atoms >>
outputs:
  junit: test-reports/tests.xml
----
--

Other::
+
--
Smarter Testing is test runner agnostic, replace the below `discover` and `run` examples with your test runner, the next step will verify the commands are set up correctly.
[source,yaml]
----
---
name: ci tests
discover: my-test-runner --only-list-tests
run: my-test-runner --junit=<< outputs.junit >> --run << test.atoms >>
outputs:
  junit: test-reports/tests.xml
----
--
====

== 3. Run locally

Use `--doctor` locally to validate the `test-suites.yml` is set up correctly.

The CLI will run through checks, running tests and validating the output, if any results look incorrect an action

> item is provided to resolve it. Follow the steps until all checks pass.

Reviewer: At this stage, will the doctor command also contain checks that are not relevant (like test-impact-analysis, etc). 

How can we make it clear to user which checks are relevant and which aren't?

Author: The checks tell you.

This is Go, where a `file-mapper` is necessary for impact analysis, but since impact analysis isn't enabled the check is skipped:
```
✓ test-suite configuration exists
✓ detect test runner
✓ test-suite configuration is valid
✓ discover command can discover test atoms
✓ run command can run discovered test atoms
ø file-mapper command can map test atoms to files: check skipped: options.test-impact-analysis is not enabled
ø analysis command can analyze test atoms: check skipped: options.test-impact-analysis is not enabled
```

And if you don't need a file-mapper we skip that too.
```
✓ test-suite configuration exists
✓ detect test runner
✓ test-suite configuration is valid
✓ discover command can discover test atoms
✓ run command can run discovered test atoms
ø file-mapper command can map test atoms to files: check skipped: all test atoms are files, file-mapper is not needed
✓ analysis command can analyze test atoms
```

[source,console]
----
$ circleci run testsuite "ci tests" --doctor
----

[TIP]
====
The `circleci run testsuite` CLI tooling should be run from the directory where your tests are located. This is typically your repository root, but for monorepos it can be the root of a subpackage (for example, `cd service-1 && circleci run testsuite "ci tests"`).

The testsuite will automatically find the `.circleci/test-suites.yml` configuration file by walking up the directory tree. All commands (`discover`, `run`, `analysis`) execute relative to where you run the CLI, so avoid using `cd` or `--directory` flags within your commands.
====

Once all checks pass, you can run all tests locally by removing the `--doctor` flag.

[source,console]
----
$ circleci run testsuite "ci tests"
----

== 4. Run in CI

TIP: When adding the testsuite command to your CircleCI jobs, there is no need to install the `testsuite` plugin as it is already available in CircleCI Docker containers.

> Use the same command you used locally to run tests in your `.circleci/config.yml`.
> 
> Find the previous test command and replace it with the `circleci run testsutie`, keeping all steps the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your .circleci/config.yml, replace your existing test command with `circleci run testsuite` — the same command you used locally. Keep all other steps the same.
```
